UNIBZ will work on modelling and predicting eSoS behaviour in order to identify anomalous behaviours, vulnerabilities, and dependability of an eSoS, design, recommend, and automatize strategies of on-line self-recovery and healing.
 
On-line monitoring and data mining. UNIBZ will work on behavioural analysis of individual systems as well as the eSoS governing them to identify their operational scope, policies, and complexity. To this aim, UNIBZ activities will focus on the automatic collection, pre-processing and mining of data originated from existing systems or eSoS and the environments in which they operate. The results of these activities will produce temporal heat maps of individual systems behaviour that will be used to generate the boundary conditions for prediction models of eSoS governing such systems. Heat maps will, for example, highlight complexities, critical information flows, vulnerabilities as well as dependability characteristics of existing systems at their operational states. As some dependability issues additionally result from the solely governance of individual systems, supervised and unsupervised learning techniques will be used to predict eSoS behaviour at boundary variations or over time.
 
Analysis and recovery planning. UNIBZ will focus on the emergent (anomalous) behaviour of an eSoS and the effects of policies of manual/self-recovery on it. By analysing behaviour for different recovery strategies, UNIBZ will apply methods and techniques like path dependence, principles of increasing returns, and network effects to identify equilibrium points in the behaviour of eSoS (e.g., the Nash equilibrium of less risky strategies), study the mitigation of conflicts among systems it governs, and select a suitable (winning) strategy.
 
Repair/immunization. UNIBZ activities will focus on root cause analysis for eSoS. UNIBZ will extend to eSoS techniques of pattern recognition in log sequences classified by different level of faultiness. Results of such analysis will produce a catalogue of operations in eSoS connected with system underperformance. The resulting patterns are analysed by different boundary conditions and recovery strategies.